catastrophic situation of uh the
civilians in the Gaza Strip and to
provide them over the needed materials
in terms of
electricity fuel uh food medicine water
and so on and so forth and president
Abbas impressed on him the need of uh
ending this Onslaught and aggression
against our people on the Gaza Strip we
appreciate the efforts of the SG and he
continued with this effort with the a
number of countries and
agencies the world U the wh is active
and it it's raising the alarm that there
has to be access to the Gaza Strip to
provide medical and humanitarian
assistance
Ona uh is it has in its facilities I
believe now it is 92 facilities as the
SG said they are housing about
220,000 displaced
Palestinians there might be an
additional 100,000s who are looking for
places uh to uh to protect their
families the situation is extremely uh
uh
uh horrific against our civilian
population the destruction is beyond
imaginations as you see and you cover
uh the the situation and the story uh
with your own
uh you know cameras so the whole world
is seeing that that catastrophe that is
befalling on the Palestinian people in
the Gaza Strip of course you know we
appreciate the efforts also of Ona who's
trying to send assistance but they
cannot Egypt and others Jordan and the
Palestinian Authority in ramala all are
uh trying you know to send assistance
but they are not succeeding so far in
addition to that I met with the
president of the security Council about
an hour ago in his chamber and I raised
with him you know that this catastrophic
situation the efforts of the SG the
efforts of all these agencies who are
active in the humanitarian field
including Anor
wh and the Readiness of many countries
including Egypt and Jordan of stepping
up to the plate and helping we
appreciate all these efforts and we will
continue the uh contacts with everyone
including the security Council so that
the International Community to shoulder
its
responsibility in stepping to the to the
picture and in putting uh an end to this
Onslaught against our people but more
importantly that would require of course
sending humanitarian assistance to the
uh 2
million3 uh of Palestinians who live in
the Gaza Strip uh there has to be a
humanitarian intervention in order to uh
to avoid uh a looming catastrophe and
humanitarian massive crisis in the Gaza
Strip we will continue with these
efforts with everyone uh I understand
that the Arab uh emergency ministerial
meeting just concluded few minutes ago
in Cairo we will study what the outcome
and see how we can fit all these things
with our activities and our contacts
with all concerned parties here at the
United Nations we hope very soon that
the International Community led by the
SG led by the security Council will rise
up to the to their responsibilities and
begin with the process of sending
humanitarian help and assistance to uh
the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip
This of course would require to have a
ceasefire or stopping the bombardment of
the Gaza Strip so that the convoys and
the Caravans would be able you know to
reach the Gaza Strip and to provide the
assistance uh to the people there and if
we succeed in this Collective effort
soon it is needed it should take place
then that would open the stage for other
possibilities to deal with all other
pressing issues this is what I wanted to
brief you with and I want to thank you
again for being with us thank you can we
ask some questions uh I I I I gave you
everything that you know well well we'd
like to hear from
you oh I've been asked by un
correspondent Association to thank you
for the briefing on behalf of Valaria
couldn't be here um my question is um
first of all have you called and have
okay you've been listening to Riyad
Mansour the Palestinian ambassador to
the United Nations alir shihab bransi is
live at the UN shihab I assume like
myself you were furiously taking notes
the headline for me is that uh the
Palestinian Ambassador is require is
calling for a humanitarian intervention
and for the Secretary General and the
security Council he said to step up to
their responsibilities to prevent a
catastrophe beginning with calling for a
ceasefire to stop the bombardment of
Gaza to allow humanitarian Aid and just
any normal supplies into Gaza given the
Israeli Siege and notably that's one
thing that the UN Secretary General when
he made his comments just about an hour
ago 45 minutes ago or so did not call
for he did not call for a ceasefire uh
he called for the immediate for supplies
of food and water to be allowed into
Gaza but he notably did not ask for a
ceasefire and in fact the secretary
General's spokesperson was asked
afterwards why did the Secretary General
not call for an immediate ceasefire why
did he not use the moral authority of
the UN Secretary General to call for an
end to the bombardment of Gaza and the
Secretary General spokesperson said well
that's the way I read it so I'm they're
suggesting that the Secretary General is
suggesting a ceasefire by constantly
saying that parties in the conflict
should abide by humanitarian law and
that's enough there's no need for an
explicit statement calling for a
ceasefire that appears to be the
position of the UN Secretary General
currently I'm going back to what Riyad
manour was saying into my notes he said
that he he thanked Egypt and Jordan
among other countries for their efforts
in uh in trying to send Aid into the
Gaza Strip but he said for the moment
those efforts are not
succeeding and I think that goes back to
exactly what you were saying that for
Aid to go in there would need to be a
ceasefire I mean of course Aid can't go
in while the Gaza Strip is uh being
bombarded and that's the green light the
ceasefire that's what they can't
get
and the he also said that the
Palestinian the president of the
Palestinian Authority Mahmud Abbas spoke
to the Secretary General two days ago
calling for humanitarian corridors to
allow in food Fuel and so on so that's
that was that was the nature of the
conversation two days ago between Mahmud
Abbas and the UN Secretary General so
yeah that is the key the key issue he
also confirmed what we'd already heard
from the United Nations that uh 92 un
facilities these are usually anra United
Nations relief and works agency schools
are now Sheltering some 220,000 people
with 100,000 others in Gaza looking for
shelter he said but it we can we can add
to that information by talking about
what the UN has also confirmed that of
those uh 200 uh those 92 schools 20 have
already been hit by Israeli fire since
Saturday 11 un staff have been killed
the cross Gaza we understand that 30
students from these schools these United
Nations schools have been killed as well
now just to remind this is something
this is a feature of these Israeli
bombardments of Gaza we saw it in 2014
when scores of Palestinians and and
indeed 10 un staff were killed during
that bombardment the coordinates of
these schools are well known the is
Israel knows where these schools are
they know they being used to shelter the
internally displaced but Israel hits
them anyway yeah AB absolutely shabo
yesterday I was speaking to uh the head
or Deputy head of unasa the the uh uh UN
Agency for Palestinian refugees about
those schools and she was telling me
those schools are as you say deconflict
that means Israel knows those
coordinates very accurately and they
know not to hit those schools and yet as
you said 20 schools have been uh have
sustained damage during the course of
these bombardments shihab bransi
reporting from the United Nations thank
you very much